Let's talk about Component Fundamentals,
which is kind of a,
really it's a multifaceted piece.
But it is the, I think,
when you're looking to get into Angular,
so this is I'm freestyling here.
That if,
as a junior developer; somebody understood
how to generate and
build basic components.
You, in my opinion, are in a place
to be paid for that service.
And so this is,
what's pretty interesting about,
just talking about
components is that I've seen
some very junior developers,
brand new to programming.
And they are still learning
how to do state management,
and Graph QL, and all the hard stuff.
But they were rock solid
in creating components,
and I was able to use them immediately.
And I've seen junior developers
effectively used on projects
because they were able to go and
build out the component layer.
And so, in an Angular application,
obviously, we have various levels
stacks degrees of complexity, but
being an opportunist that I am,
that everything that I do in the back
of my mind is, I'm asking myself,
can this provide value that's
the Mark Urbanski question.
And then the Lucas Rubik key question is,
can I convert this into money?
And so the CLI is essentially
a micro money printer.
But by extension of the component,
being able to generate components for
people looking to get into development,
this is a great place to start,
in something that is valuable and
can be utilized almost immediately.
So with that said,
let's get the party started.
Component Fundamentals.
And so, we've seen this slide
in a previous life, but
the anatomy of a component
is pretty straightforward.
You have a component class,
you have your template that
is wired together using metadata which
is very, very simple in most cases.
And then outside of the structure piece
you have the communication channels,
which is facilitated via binding,
event binding and property binding.
Now, just as much as I said
the Angular CLI, exclamation point equals,
equals, in other words, strict inequality,
it does not equal a crutch.
I want to be very adamant,
that using classes,
i.e, component classes,
this does not equate to inheritance.
And so for me,
I prefer functional style programming.
And when I have an opportunity to
program in a functional style,
that's what I'm going
to gravitate towards.
In JavaScript, believe it or not,
even though it looks like Java,
it is a lisp in wolf's clothing.
Is that JavaScript is a very
dynamic functional language,
you can do some really
cool things with it.
You still can do cool things with it.
But my reservation when
ESX was coming along and
TypeScript, is that if
we introduce classes,
it's going to pave the way for
inheritance.
And I think that inheritance is a very,
very slippery slope
because of the level of indirection and
coupling that it creates.
So just because we're using classes,
if you're coming from Java and
you have an inheritance fetish or C sharp,
resist the urge to use inheritance and
instead favorite composition.
What I recommend is that, actually if
you go read any design pattern book,
they talk about favor
composition over inheritance.
That as an organizational mechanism,
a class is fantastic,
as a mechanism to inherit
functionality from something else,
be very, very careful.
I do not recommend doing that and
avoiding it at all cost.
You can achieve the same
thing via composition, and
it's a lot clearer what is happening.
So with that said, when you have
a component, you have a component class.
And so the beginning of a class is
an ES6 class, and properties and
methods on the component class are now
available for binding in the template.
So the first thing you do is
you define your class, so
in our case export class items component.
The next thing that you do is,
you're going to import the core
Angular dependencies that you need
to make this a functional component.
So obviously,
component from core is a big one.
But any third party dependencies,
any custom dependencies,
you need to bring those in, and
I recommend pulling in just what you need,
and not all the things.
So what this does is if
you have a dependency or
you're pulling in dependencies,
be very explicit about that.
A very good example of where not to do
that, and I don't believe you can anymore,
but for instance,
RxJS has like 150 operators.
Well, at one point, what you would
do is import star from RxJS.
And even though you're
using maybe two operators,
you've just imported the whole library,
and that's very, very inefficient.
So I recommend, be very explicit about
what you're using, and import just that.
So here,
import component from Angular core,
and then you will decorate the class.
So this is where the metadata comes in.
We turn our class into something that
Angular can use by decorating it with
Angular specific metadata, surprise.
So @Component, and we can also as I said,
we can decorate our properties and
methods.
So the two most common ones are input and
output.
And so here we're saying I
have this component class, and
I wanna decorate it, or essentially
Angularfy it by adding in a selector,
that Angular can then use to attach it to
a DOM, the template URL and style URLs.
And then from there,
you need to expose this component.
So we declare it,
we add it to the declarations
array in the appropriate ng model.
So in this case,
we're doing an app module.
But we would add that to
the declarations array,
so that once it's declared,
then it is now available for use
And as I said, when you have properties or
methods on a component class,
that is available for binding.
So in my template we'll
see this in a little bit.
I could actually bind to items,
or selected item or
call reset item or select item.
And with a dependency, so
if your component has a dependency
that is injected via the constructor